hey guys David budweiser here with
Budweiser calm and I'm gonna be helping
you show you guys a really cool
structured way to do your game design
documents in Google Docs
I prefer Google Docs over word and
Dropbox now that I've gotten used to it
I think the features are a lot cleaner
nicer easier to use
I like the formatting and most
importantly I can work simultaneously
with my team and and they can comment on
stuff and we don't have to break it
doesn't break any of the files like you
do in Dropbox you don't have to worry
about sub versions or anything like that
being created so let's just talk really
quick about terminology before we get
started the reason I wanted to make this
video is a lot of people in I've noticed
in the indie scene are talking about
their game design document and they
really either they don't have one or
they don't have a good one some of them
are just much too short much too
ambiguous to be a real game design
document and they're holding on to it
like it's super important and then you
find out you know if you want to work
with them or something all they've got
is like three pages written down and
really to me that's not a game design
document that unless you're making
something super simple I've heard of
some people were writing their game
design document on napkins and I just
think that that's the exception to the
rule and not the norm if what you have
is less than four pages what you
probably have is is kind of a general
concept or even a pitch document a pitch
document is something that you show to
other team members other investors or
even even maybe like a media type of
outlet type thing to get people
interested in your game so you might
work on a pitch document to try and
raise funds or to get people to work as
team members to try and gain resources
before you get to your game design
document the other terminology I want to
go over is the technical design document
the game design document and the
technical design document they do
overlap a lot but anytime that you're
working with programmers and they say
they don't like your game design
document and they want you to fix it
what they really mean is they want a
technical design document a technical
design document does not have any of the
ambiguity the flavor the story or the
extra
that goes into a game design document
it's very specific so that when a
programmer starts to work he knows you
know this piece goes here this object is
36 by 36 there's nothing ambiguous you
don't use words like small medium large
you want to be as specific as possible
in your technical design document
alright so for more information about
this terminology you can come to my
website and click on game dev dictionary
or game dev glossary and it'll go over a
lot of the keywords that are used in the
industry and give it a real simple
definition even if you've been working
I've worked with people who have been in
the industry for a couple years now and
we're kind of throwing around these
words in a completely different fashion
so you want at least have a glossary
that's kind of common place for you guys
so you guys are working on your own
project you might want to use this as
your own or at least make everyone read
this so that you you kind of get the
right terminology being thrown around
and the other thing on my website that's
really cool for you guys and their game
assets ooh oops
I haven't loaded it yet game assets here
is there's some links to some places
where you can get some really cheap
stuff find good artists find developers
who are looking for projects as well and
even some tutorials alright as well as
this and we'll get back to this in a
second so I'm gonna dive straight in and
we're gonna start working on our game
design document if you are thinking
about building a website I can recommend
DreamHost I've used them for over five
years they're excellent for million
domains I use GoDaddy it's very you know
they're really big and it's really
simple they have a really good front end
user system for keeping track of all
your domains so I do have referral links
if you decide to use those companies use
my referral links thank you it helps me
out a lot alright so let's get started